This is Jocco podcast number 35 with echo Charles and me
Jocco willing
Good evening, I go good evening
Weeper was ahead when he and born reach the gap in the wire
Starshell after Starshell was going up now and the whole line had woken up machine guns were talking
But there was one that would not talk the rattle of musketry continued
But the mist was kindly to them and had thickened again
As they got beyond the trampling clutching wire born saw weeper a couple of pieces ahead of him and
What he thought was the last of their party disappearing into the mist about 20 yards away?
He was glad to be clear of the wire another Starshell went up and they both froze and stillness under its glare
Then they moved again hurrying for all they were worth
Born felt the sense of triumph and escape thrill in him
Anyway, the hunt couldn't see him now
Something kicked him in the upper part of the chest
Rending its way through him and his agonized cry was scarcely audible in the rush of blood from his mouth as he collapsed and fell
Weeper turned his head over his shoulder listened stopped and went back
He found born trying to lift himself and born spoke gasping suffocating
Go on, I'm scuppered
I'll not leave the said whipper said weeper. He stood and lifted the other and his huge ungangly arms
carrying him as tenderly as though he were a child
Born struggled weirdly to speak and the blood filling his mouth
Prevented him
Sometimes his head fell on weeper's shoulder
That last barely articulate a few words came
I'm finished leave me in peace for God's sake. You can't
I'll not leave thee
said weeper in infuriate rage
He felt born stretch himself in a convulsive shutter and
Relax becoming suddenly heavier in his arms
He struggled on stumbling over the shell plowed ground through that fantastic mist
Which moved like an army of rates hurling away from him?
Then he stopped and taking the body by the waist with his left arm flung it over his shoulder
Steating it with his right
He could see there wire now and presently he was challenged and replied
He found the way through the wire
And staggered into the trench with his burden
Then he turned down the short stretch
to monk trench trench and came on the rest of the party outside a company's dugout
I've brought him back he cried desperately
And collapsed with the body on the duckboards
And that is from a book called
The Middle Parts of Fortune
Which is written by a guy named Frederick Manning
who served with the kings
Shropshire light infantry in World War I he served with the seventh battalion at the battle of the song
And after the war he became a writer and the book which is actually a novel but based on his experiences
Was published as being written by private one nine zero two two
It's out of got originally published and then after his death
He finally received credit for writing it and it's a
It's a very powerful book and I wanted to start with that excerpt from World War I because it is the most shining
In my mind and most horrific example of a Trishon warfare
Almost 20 million killed
Usually over a few hundred yards of trench
And I can't stand that
A Trishon warfare is a strategy in which one side tries to grind down and wear down the other side
And they break when they no longer have the men
The soldiers
The people the humans or the supplies to keep it going
In
It's brutal
And it also gives
No real advantage
To intellect and to thought and to tactical prowess on the battlefield
And I don't like it
Now the opposite
Of a Trishon warfare is maneuver warfare
And that's what we're gonna dive into tonight
The book is the maneuver warfare handbook
But as we
Talk about it
Think about it not just being about war and about combat
But about how a Trishon warfare and maneuver warfare can be easily seen
In the way that we lead you know and
Also in the way we interact with other people with other humans which is what leading is
And so here we go
Into this book right here maneuver warfare handbook
It's written by William S. Lind and we're getting him in a minute
Here we go with the book
I served over 31 years active duty with the Marine Corps
Saw combat in both Korean Vietnam and attended service schools from the basic school to the National War College
Yet only toward the end of my military career did I realize how little I really understood the art of war
Even as a PFC in Korea after being met a vact along with most of my platoon after a fruitless frontal assault
Against superior North Korean forces
It seemed to me there had to be a better way to wage war
17 years later
Commanding a battalion at K-Son
I was resolved that none of my Marines would die for lack of superior combat power
But we were still relying on the concentration of superior firepower to win
Essentially still practicing grants at Trishon warfare
And we were still doing frontal assaults
That opening right there is
Colonel John C. Stutt
Marine Corps obviously and he just kind of explained his his
his career path
Servant in both Korean Vietnam and he goes on the author of this book so he's doing the forward to this book maneuver warfare
The author of this book has never served a day of active military duty
And he has never been shot at
Although there are no doubt some senior officers would like to remedy that later ladder deficiency
So he's a little bit unpopular the guy that wrote this book with some with some people
Yet he demonstrates an amazing understanding of the art of war
As have only a small handful of military thinkers. I have come across in my career
So he's talking about this guy
William William S. Linde
And here he goes into some details on William S. Linde and how he came into contact with him
Back to the book
When I first heard Bill Lynn speak I must confess I resented a mere civilian expressing criticism of the way our beloved
Core did things
After all he was not one of us
He had not shed blood with us in battle. He was not a brother
And I had strong suspicions that he would have difficulty passing the PFT
Meaning the physical test the physical this so this guy went a lind not not exactly a
High level athlete
But what he said made sense for the first time I was personally hearing someone advocate a new
Unapproach to war that was based on intellectual innovation rather than sheer material superiority
Mission type orders surfaces and gaps shfared punked
Instead of the rigid formulas and checklist that we normally associate with our training and doctrine
It was a stimulating experience
Through Lynn's articulation years of my own reading of military history began to make a lot more sense
But why all this from a civilian instead of a professional soldier?
In fact the entire movement for for military reform is driven largely by civilian intellectuals not military officers
One notable exception being retired air force Colonel John Boyd
When you think about it, this is not surprising
We have never institutionalized
A system that encourages innovative ideas or criticism from subordinates. So there you go
It's the military. What do you say to your what do you say to your superior officer?
I don't think that's a good plan. No, what they're told to do is support the plan
Proposing significant change is viewed frequently viewed as criticism of superiors since they're responsible for the way things are
And borders on disloyalty if not in subordination
So it's not surprising that the movement for reform comes from outside the military establishment
And he goes on to say be age
Lidale Hart which be age Lidale Hart was a guy that
Fought in world war one a Brit the front world war one
Battle of Somme he got hit three times
Eventually was gasped
Set out of line and almost his entire battalion was wiped out
And this guy eventually wrote a book called strategy and indirect approach
And an interesting I pulled up one quote from him
Often the longest way around is the shortest way there
This is the indirect approach
So anyways back to the book here on what be age Lidale Hart said
Bill Hart once remarked that the only thing harder than getting a new idea into the military mind is to get an old one out
In 1925 when he was expounding such a terrible
theories as the indirect approach
The American General Service Schools review of current military literature dismissed one of Lidale Hart's major works as
Negative value to the instructors at these schools
I expect Marine Corps schools to receive this publication with similar enthusiasm
But I cannot believe a professional military officer would not benefit by reading it
So
That's if you
To catch the set up of this book he's saying look this is different what we've been taught this is different and by the way this this book
I'm checking the dates right now this came out in 1985
So
There has been progress in this direction since then but at the time that this came out it was just
It was viewed as almost
In subordination to think this way
So let's jump into it right here
With the theory of maneuver warfare so now we're getting to lend himself writing maneuver warfare is not new
It probably dates from the first time a caveman surprised an enemy from behind instead of meeting him club to club
Sometimes the word maneuver is used as a synonym for movement
Such such as in references to fire and maneuver in small unit tactics
So that's you know we have in in the book extreme ownership cover move and and that's what we're talking about
We're talking about move. He's saying fire maneuver is the same use of the word maneuver to mean move
Manuver is organized movement of troops during combat operations to a new access and
Region for the purpose of taking in an advantageous position relative to the enemy in order to deliver a decisive strike
So that that's sort of the classical definition
But when used in the phrase maneuver warfare
maneuver means much more
Only recently has someone suggested a convincing answer of what maneuver means
That man is a retired air force colonel and fighter pilot named John Boyd
Colonel Boyd's development of the theory of maneuver warfare began not with ground battles
But with a study of some mock air to air combat exercises
Conducted at Nella's air force base in 1974 that led him back to the study of air to air combat during the Korean war
American aviators were very successful in that conflict they achieved a 10 to one kill ratio
Over their North Korean and Chinese opponents Colonel Boyd began his study with the question how and why did we do so well?
He noted in several tradition he noted that in several traditional measures of aircraft performance
The principal communist fighter the Meg 15 was superior to the American F86
So you might think oh Americans always have the best technology not true
So and and Boyd will end up doing boyd we're gonna hear quite a bit about him right now
But this guy was sort of a strategic genius in the air force and a bunch of people on Twitter
Hit me and social media have always been saying you got to do boy. You got to do boy
And I know I got to do boy to some point and this is sort of a good introduction to boyd
So
Here's the here's the difference between the Meg 15 and the American F86
The Meg 15 it could climb and accelerate faster and it had better sustain turn rate
But in two less obvious measures of aircraft performance the F86 was much superior to the Meg
First the pilot could see out much better the F86 bubble canopy gave its pilot very good outward vision
While the Meg's faired faired canopy made it difficult to see out
Second the F86 had a high powered and highly effective hydraulic controls and the Meg did not
This meant that while the Meg could do many individual actions
Including turn climb and accelerate better than the F86 the F86 could transition from one action to another much more quickly than the Meg
It was better in the transition
So for all you did it super players we start that scramble you start that scramble the the F86 is a better scramble
Using these two superior to use the American pilots developed a tactical approach that forced the Meg into a series of actions each
Each time the action changed the F86 gained a time advantage because the F86 pilot could see more quickly how the situation had changed
And he could also make his aircraft shift more quickly to a new action
So he can see what's happening faster than once he sees it which he saw faster now he can make his adjustment faster
With each change the Meg's actions became more
inappropriate until they were so inappropriate that the Meg gave the F86 a good firing opportunity
Often it appeared the Meg pilot realized what was happening to him in panic
Which made the American pilots job all the easier
Later Colonel Boyd began studying ground combat to see if there were any situation similar to that
He had found in the air war over Korea
He found that in battles campaigns in wars like Vixberg and France a
Similar thing seemed to have happened
One side had presented the other with a sudden unexpected change or a series of such changes to which it could not adjust in a timely manner as a result
It was defeated and it was generally defeated at small costs as a divector
Often the losing side had been physically stronger than the winner just like the Meg 15 was was physically faster
It didn't matter
And often the same sort of panic and paralysis the North Korean and Chinese pilots had shown seemed to occur
Colonel Boyd asked himself what did all these cases have in common?
His answer was what is now called the Boyd theory
Which is the theory of maneuver warfare
The briefing Colonel Boyd gives to explain his theory patterns of conflict takes over five hours
So he's so the so Colonel Boyd does give this brief and it takes over five hours or he did when he was when he was alive
But at the cost of missing some of the subtleties and supporting historical evidence in the briefing it can be summarized as follows
So here's a kind of a synopsis of the Boyd theory that
Lin is gonna put together for us right now
Back to the book
Conflict can be seen as time competitive observation orientation decision action cycles
Each party to a conflict begins by observing
He observes himself his physical surroundings and his enemy
On the basis of his observatory observation he oryons that is to say he makes a mental image or snapshot of his situation
On the basis of this orientation he makes a decision
He puts the decision into effect i.e. he acts
Then because he assumes his action has changed the situation
He observes again and starts the process a new his actions follow a cycle
Sometimes called the Boyd cycle or Ud aloup and Ud is O O DA and that's observed oriented side and act
If one side in a conflict can consistently go through the Boyd cycle faster than the other it gains a tremendous event advantage
By the time the slower side acts the faster side is doing something different from what he observed and his action is inappropriate
With each cycle the slower parties action is inappropriately
Is inappropriate by a larger time margin
Even though he desperately strives to do something that will work each action is less useful than its predecessor
He falls further and further behind
Ultimately he ceases to be effective
And he we clearly I mean that this is obvious in combat. It's also obvious in in jujitsu
I mean very clear when you're training when you're wrong with somebody
If if they're not making adjustments fast enough you just it's two or three two or three transitions and you got them you're on their back. You know
The Boyd Fury defines what is meant by the word maneuver in the term maneuver warfare
Manuver means Boyd cycling
Boyd cycling the enemy being consistently faster through however many Ud aloups it takes until the enemy loses its cohesion until he can no longer fight
Isn't effective organized force
Sometimes a Boyd cycle the enemy panics or becomes passive
This is an ideal outcome for the victor because a panicked passive enemy can be annihilated or captured at the lowest cost in friendly casualties
At other times the outmaneuvered enemy may continue to fight as individuals or small units
But because he can no longer act effectively as a force he is comparatively easy to destroy so
Continuing on if the object in maneuver warfare is to move through the Ud aloups faster than the enemy
What do you need to do?
How can you be consistently faster?
Much of the much of the rest of this book is an effort to address that question
But in terms of general theory the following points are worth thinking about
one
Only a decentralized military can have a fast-oot aloup
If the observations must be passed up the chain of command the orientation made in the decision taken at a high level and the command for action
Then transmitted back down the chain the Ud aloup is going to be slow
As the Israeli military historian Martin van Crevel has observed from Plato to NATO
The history of command and war consists of an endless quest for certainty
Certainty concerning the state and intention of the enemy's forces certain de-concerning the manifold factors
Which together constitute the environment from the weather and the terrain to the radioactivity and presence of chemical warfare agents and
Last but definitely not least
Certainty concerning the state and activities of one's own forces
Historical commanders have always faced the choice between two basic ways of coping with uncertainty
One was to construct an army of automatons following the orders of a single man
Allowed to do only that which could be controlled
That's centralized command the other to design organizations and operations in such a way as to enable the former to carry out the latter without the need for continuous control
This second the second of these methods has that's decentralized command
The second of these methods has to buy and large proved more successful than the first and
The ongoing revolution in the technology of command notwithstanding this is likely to remain so in the future and indeed so long as war itself exists
Very obvious stuff and again, you know in in our book
Stream ownership. That's one of the principles of combat decentralized command and this is what it is if you don't have decentralized command
That you have to report up the chain of command that takes time by the time it gets back down
What the decision decision gets made at the higher level than they pass it back down to you
By the time it gets to you it's already changed and that's in a jiu-jitsu in a jitsu
comparison if you if you if you have to think about your moves, so you have instinct to lose muscle memory when somebody
Starts the pass your guard you get the underlock if you have to think about getting the underhook
And you have to command your body to get the underhook there. You got the underhook on you. Yeah, so it's the same thing here. That's the dead's decentralized command
Back to the book number two maneuver warfare means you will not only accept confusion and disorder and
Operate successfully within it through decentralization you will also
Generate confusion and disorder. I love that that's just awesome right? It's not just saying hey look things great confusing
But I'm actually going to create the confusion. I'm going to make it happen that's something any
When you see the really good jiu-jitsu guys, I mean Glover does that Glover creates confusion
He creates mayhem he creates chaos and the gate in the in a match. He wants the scrambled to happen. He wants to go as long as possible
The reconnaissance pull tactics of the German blitzkrieg were inherently disorderly now this is something that's very
Contrary to what people think of of the German military and even the German culture
German culture is very orderly and here we say the the blitzkrieg was inherently disorderly
Back to the book higher headquarters could neither direct nor predict the exact path of the advance
But the multitude of German reconnaissance thrust generated massive confusion among the French in 1940
Each was reported as a new attack the German seemed to be everywhere and the French who system demanded certainty before making any decisions were paralyzed
It's it's very interesting to think about that idea of
We all want to have certainty and what's going to happen and how in in battle and in life if you wait until you're 100% certain you're probably going to be too late
Speaking of certainty three all patterns recipes and formulas are to be avoided
The enemy must not be able to predict your actions if your tactics follow predictable patterns
The enemy can easily cut inside your utaloupe if you can predict what you will do you will be waiting for you
This is why it's so hard to tell someone how to do maneuver warfare
There is no formula you can learn when someone says
Cut all the bull about theory just tell me what to do you can't
You can talk about how to think and about some useful techniques
But you can't give new formulas to replace the ones currently taught
Instead of a checklist or a cookbook
maneuver warfare requires commanders who can sense more than they can see
Who understand the opponent's strengths and weaknesses and their own and who can find the enemies critical weaknesses in a specific situation
They must be able to create multiple threats and keep the enemy uncertain as to which one is real
They must be able to see their options in the situation before them
Constantly create new options and shift rapidly among options as the situation develops
General Herman bulk one of the most successful practitioners of maneuver warfare said
I'm against the school approach that says in accordance with the ideas of the general staff in this situation
You must do thus and such
On the contrary you must proceed as dictated by the personalities involved and the particulars of the situation
So he got a German successful German general and he's actually saying you react based
Not just on the situation of the of the on the ground but on the personalities involved
Leadership is an art my friend
Therefore one of the first principles has to be there can be no fixed schemes
Every scheme every pattern is wrong
No two situations are identical that is why the study of military history can be extremely dangerous
Another principle that follows from is from this is never do the same thing twice
Even if something works well for you once by the second time the enemy will have adapted
So you have to think of something new
No one thinks of becoming a great painter simply by imitating Michelangelo
Similarly you can't become a great military leader just by imitating someone
It has to come from within in the last analysis military command is an art
One man can do it and most will never learn
Little bit of maneuver warfare and
So so at the the way the book is broken up this book is called maneuver warfare handbook it's it goes into
to
breaks into another
section which we're gonna get to in a minute
But he kind of goes into a little bit will end go now goes into a little bit talking about education and training
Back to the book it is my great and this is a quote it is my great and constant hope
That the Marine Coral will produce some outstanding man for this country such man are somewhere and they may as well be in our classes
Is anywhere else? I do not want such a person to be hammered down by narrowness and dogmas
to have his mind cramped by compulsory details
It is my constant ambition to see the Marine officers filled with ambition
Initiative and originality and they can get these attributes only by liberal
Liberality of thought broad thought that differs thought that differs from precedent and the compulsory imprint of others
And that is a long paragraph
That says free your mind
Free your mind and I love pointing us out because this is the Marine Corps
That's that that quote is from the common dawn of Marine Corps schools Brigadier general
J.C. Breckenridge written in 1934 in
1934 he was saying people Marine Corps officers
Don't go by the book
Don't obey what other people said he wants him filled with ambition. That's pretty normal
But initiative and originality
He's telling in order to be a good leader
You got to free your mind
Now like I said the book makes a transition from being the
From being the introduction
by William Lind about maneuver warfare and then it slides into another section
Which is just about as big and this this part is called fundamentals of tactics and this section is
Written by Colonel Michael D. Wiley United says Marine Corps and he ran a course
Fundamentals of tactics course and this is
Sort of the this is the this is the notes from the course when he would teach this course the fundamentals of tactics and a Colonel Wiley
Kind of interesting he went to the
Went to the using elisted marine then he went to the naval academy and he was
Jim webs
Company commander in Vietnam Vietnam and and Jim web is a fairly
Famous guy he was a navy cross winner. He is a set now a he was a senator from Virginia
He wrote a book called
Fields of fire and then there's another great book called
The Night and Gale song which is he follows a couple
five
So yeah, I think it's it's a web McCain all over north
Macphorland I think and and John point actually anyways very prominent
Graduates from the naval academy that all kind of stood out and were were connected
Throughout the book so this guy so Jim web is this is this kind of famous guy and this guy that wrote this was was Jim web's company commander in Vietnam
So that's
Kind of it's a small world things tie together
So now we get into these lectures that you wrote and I don't mean the lecture anybody but
Hey, they're called lectures in this book. I would just call them free-frow information
We're gonna learn from in the first the first section is called surfaces and gaps
The concept of surfaces and gaps is one of several concepts that bear on tactics
It is unimportant whether you refer to this concept as surfaces and gaps or soft spot tactics or simply the idea of
Pitting your strength against the enemies weaknesses
That is what it is all about strength against weakness call it what you will the term
Surfaces and gaps is derived from a German term flaking on the lukin tactic
Which means simply the tactics of surfaces and gaps the surfaces being the enemy strong points
Which we avoid the gaps being the weak points that we want to go through
Now La Delle Hart if we talked about already today
Called it the expanding torrent system tactic he drew an analogy between attacking an attacking army and a torrent of water
If we watch a torrent bearing down on each successive bank of earth and damn in its path
We see that it first beats against the obstacle feeling and testing it on all points
Eventually it falls it finds a small crack
Through this crack pour the first driplets of water and rush straight on the pent-up water on each side is drawn towards the breach
It swirls through around the flanks of the breach wearing away the earth on each side and so widening the gap
Simultaneously the water behind poor straight through that breach between this the side eti's which are wearing away the flanks
Directly it is passed through it expands to widen once more
The on-reach of the turn of the torrent
Thus as the water pours through it in and an ever increasing volume the on-reach of the torrent swells to its original proportion
Leaving in turn each crumbling obstacle behind it
Long paragraph
But that's how water gets through things finds the weak point and piles on
The idea of putting surfaces and gaps tactics into practice was first implemented by the German army in world war one
This is stuff that everybody should know especially military people in 1918 as they prepared for
Ludendorf spring offensive the German army changed its offensive tactics
The Germans had found that they were being overpowered by the material available to the British and the French
The Americans were coming and it was clear that Germany was going to lose if she did not do something differently
Because they did not have the option of matching the allies strength and material the Germans decided that they would have to outthink them
That is they would have to have better tactics
Germany did not succeed in winning the war it was too late by this time they were surrounded
The women and children were starving at home. It was simply too late for them to win
Yet they made some tactical progress
There at the last at last in the spring of 1918
They inflicted terrible defeats on their enemies to the point that the allied armies were seriously
Considering the prospect of giving up
At the tactical level the Germans put their strength against weakness
They sought the gaps
Small assault groups called storm groupin sought gaps in the enemy lines and attacked through them
Assaulting with light machine guns rifles grenades and flame throwers while heavy machine guns
Direct and indirect weapons including trench mortars were used to suppress enemy strong points
But on a strategic level the spring of 1918 offensive failed
Why because looting duff on that level put strength against strength?
He was seeking gaps he was seeking gaps at the enemy strong points. That's a very
Great information to have so yeah the guys on the ground were attacking the weak points
But the strategic picture they were still attacking a strong area
So you might have found a little weakness in a wall a little weakness in the wire a little weakness in the trench
But they were attacking a let's say at 20 mile trench that was overall was a strong area
Whereas they should have looked for where the flanks are a hundred miles away
Back to the book the idea of putting strength against weakness was of course born way before 1918
Clouse fits rights about it in chapter nine and ten of book seven in chapter nine
Regarding defense of positions he states
The attack cannot prevail against them it has no means at its disposal to counteract their advantage
In practice not all defensive positions are like this if the attacker sees that he can get away without assaulting them
It would be stupid of him not to attempt it. It would be super to him to attempt it
It is a risky business to attack an able opponent in a good position
Same thing we heard from Sunsu you don't attack never heavily defended positions
Back to the book employment of this concept of surfaces and gaps then gives us many advantages over what could be called
slower moving forms of combat where strength is thrown against strength
Attacking through gaps avoiding surfaces gives us an advantage of economy of force
If we are pitted strength against strength assaulting enemy strong points
We are consuming our manpower as well as ammunition to supplies as we go along
If we go through the gaps
We are practicing economy of force
We are reaching our objective without using up our men
We are leaving the enemy behind because we are moving faster we have the advantage of rapid exploitation
So when you attack obviously attack weaknesses
You lose less be lose less men
Now this is important the concept of surfaces and gaps demands leadership from the front as opposed to leadership from the rear
The commander must be where he can make swift decisions
He must be where the situation is developing
Obviously leadership from the front had become a scarcity in world war one
JFC follower in his book general ship wrote
In the world war nothing was more dreadful to witness than a chain of men
Starting with a batying commander and ending with an army commander sitting in telephone boxes improvised or actual talking talking
In place of leading leading
leading
The result was unresponsive leadership and slow reactions
We talked about this on the last podcast when life was talking about being in an assault force and being in the assault train
Which is 20 guys 15 or 20 guys and he was standing always at the end of the train because that's where you was told he was supposed to be
And he didn't know what's going on the front so he couldn't help he couldn't make any decisions if someone was gonna if he needed to make a decision
Well, he couldn't even make a decision because he knows what's going on up there
But if someone said hey, we need a decision from the boss they had to pass that word all the way back. No, not good
So you got to lead from the front with decentralized command and
Be far enough the final one. I don't want to make it sound that simple you got to be it's the same thing we talked about life
You got to be far enough forward that you can
Understand what's happening up there and
And obviously, but you don't want to be the guy that's doing the shooting because then you've gone too far far forward to actually be detached and make decisions
Certainly combat is not going to be that simple the gap then might be any
Undefended point or any weekly defended point it may be any enemy vulnerability
It might be the enemies flanks
The term flank itself needs some elaboration think of it as a relative thing
John Boyd defines a flank as that aspect that aspect
Toward which a force is not devoting its primary attention
In other words in fluid warfare what is one moment the enemy's flank might the next moment be the enemy's front?
It depends on how he is directing his attention a
Gap for the infantry could be an enemy missile site manned by troops who are not combat oriented
The missile site might be a surface if you are flying on an airplane, but a gap if you were a light infantryman who has gotten inside enemy lines
So
It does that make sense to you so if you've got a if you've got a surface to air missile
Launcher and it it has a radio or radar on it and it can track aircraft coming in and if you're a fighter aircraft
You don't want to say what you want to stay away from that thing because it'll get you locked on radar
It's gonna fire a heat-seeking missile at you and kill you
So for them it's a surface it's a strong point for an aircraft it's a strong point
But for a ground troop
They don't put you know the highest level of troops
Guarding these things because they're in the rear a little bit they put like kind of you know some what they call him here
They're manned by troops who are not combat oriented so that means it's a softer target
Back to the book. Let us say we are unsuccessful in finding any gaps
We may have to create gaps and there are ways of doing this
So then they talk about the ways you can do it you can do it through fire power of a drop in bombs by suppression by assault
All those different ways to create gaps with you know using direct fire to soften up targets
And then then I like these tactics a little bit better another way of creating gaps is through supporting attacks by attacking one point along the line
We may divert the enemy from another point and by drawing them off created gap again this is in linear terms for instructional purposes for simplicity
But do not get a linear mindset
Sometimes a less costly way of creating a gap is through deception by causing the enemy to think that we will attack at one point
There by enticing him to draw his forces off from another point
And when he attack that point where he has weakened himself
But what do we do about surfaces that is strong points?
Sometimes they are best bypassed
Once the enemy has been bypassed as strong point maybe cut off from its support and in that way his strong point eventually withers
Away and becomes a weak point which we can attack later
You know we talk a lot here about not attacking people's defensible positions and this is just a classic another way of saying that
You know we talk about people with got the ego the big ego and how you don't want to confront that ego
Well if you can bypass the ego eventually the ego doesn't become a factor anymore
And that's the same thing when you're doing ground combat
Back to the book you're certain problems presented by the concept of surfaces and gaps especially to commanders who are used to slow moving forms of combat
One is that the commander will not always know where all his people are
In the Marine Corps we have become used to being accountable at all times for knowing exactly where every man is
In this faster moving form of combat to do so would be impossible
Your subordinates are finding the gaps and exploiting them so you've got you if you're control freak
You're not gonna be able to pull this off
Because I'm saying where are you echo where are you echo where are you? No echo is out there. He's working. He's finding some gaps to get through
Not no exactly where he is
Another problem is that artillery in air might not be
May not be controlled as closely as is possible in slowing slower moving forms of combat so you start to
Deal with the problems of of air support and artillery is a little trickier to use because you have people moving
Around the battlefield and you're not sure where everyone is and that makes it very difficult
Because you obviously don't want to drop bombs on your own people
Another problem associated with the concept of surfaces and gaps is that as we penetrate deeply
Often on narrow fronts our flanks become exposed
There are however compensating factors again related to speed
We are moving quickly the enemy is always off balance remember the old adage there is security in speed
So in other words as you penetrate into a into a zone you're gonna be exposed a little bit
But if you're moving fast you can deal with that exposure
Critics of these faster moving forms of combat characterized by initiative at the low level fear that they will lead groups
To groups of men moving willy nearly about the battlefield and that commanders will lose control
So people say oh, you know if I give so much so much initiative at the low level
I'm gonna lose control of it and people are gonna be running around like chickens with their heads cut off
This need not be so if the concept of surfaces and gaps is employed properly it will not be so
That is why we have control measures the boundary the limit of advance the phase line can still be used
It must be remembered that these control measures should serve their function
But not be rigid lines that cannot be changed or ignored when the situation changes
They should be kept to a minimum and must always be flexible
The tactics must never follow the control measures on the contrary the control measures must follow the tactics
And the tactics must always be based on the enemy
Other concepts that will be discussed in the chapters ahead especially that of the main effort
Give us meaning gives us means of keeping control over our troops and preventing a situation where they can be said to be moving
Willy nearly about the battlefield
So decentralized command it it is challenging and
If you don't do it right you will have chaos
So now we get into the next section
It does say lecture again, but again, I'm not here to lecture anybody. I don't think I don't think I can pull that off
The concept this one this section is called mission tactics
The concept of mission tactics like surfaces and gaps must always be at work in battle
The name is the name is derived from the German
Alph-Trags tactic which means literally mission tactics
It is no accident that the naming includes the word tactics
Assigning a mission and depending on subordinates to carry it out
Constituits the tactic to allow the subordinate to decide on his own initiative
What to do is the means of getting the most appropriate decisions made on the spot and acted on
More rapidly than the enemy can respond to your actions
Gotta get your subordinate
Leadership to lead you want them to lead
This is the account of Prince Frederick Charles who is giving a tonn Lashing to one of his majors for committing a tactical
Blunder in defensive his action the major explain that he was only following orders
In the press and army the major reminded the prince and order from a senior officer was tentant about to an order from the king
The prince was on impressed
His reply to the major was the king made you a major because he thought you were smart enough to know when not to obey orders
And that is the essence of mission tactics the subordinate decides what to do even if even if it means that the order
Issued by his senior now should be changed or adjusted the mission assigned is sacred the mission is the output that the commander wants
That does not change but how that output is to be achieved may change and it's up to the intelligent
Subordinate to decide whether or not it has
total
freedom
for the subordinate leadership
to figure out how they want to make this happen. They know what they need to get done
But they they have the freedom to figure out how they're gonna make it happen
Back to the book there is a classic example used time and time again and introducing the student to mission tactics
It is simple and a value so we'll be used to get here the subordinate is giving the mission of getting his unit across the river
Getting his unit across the river is the output the senior desires
The route that he has been given crosses the nearest bridge the junior commander arrives at the site to find that the bridge is been destroyed
He does not stop he does not wait for new orders. He does not request permission to change his route
He goes to the nearest forward several kilometers distance and he crosses there
He informs the senior of course as soon as he can but he does not wait
Remember mission orders are necessary to give the tempo of operations the rapidity that it must have
If we are to keep the enemy off balance so that's a very simple example
I tell echo hey
I need your I need your troops across that river go across that bridge you get there the bridges out
You're like oh, I'm still gonna get across the river here. Let's find a point in the place
We can go across or let's make it happen and you're gonna make it happen
Not gonna bother me you're not gonna call me back. You know me hey the bridge is out. We'll meet you now
Something that this is a little bit
This is a little bit simplified because the reality is if you're gonna start moving kilometers away from where I anticipated you being
You need to tell me that you're moving you need to tell me because I might have other friendly units in the area that might
Don't expect you I might have big drop in bombs in that area
So this is this is actually leaving out some critical coordination that does have to happen
But the initiative to make it happen should happen. Yeah, it seems like you
Like in the in the process of that decentralized command the person carrying out the order is
It's kind of to his discretion how much?
He's gonna deviate when something changes like he can't he's of course is gonna deviate
He's gonna make those adjustments, but you don't want a deviate too much right and and honestly
If I was to give you directions hey echo I need you going to cry. I need you across the river
I would literally give you some parameters to work with it. I say don't go don't go further south than this area than this road
And don't go further north than this you can do whatever you want inside of here
So now you can do whatever you want inside that box. Yeah, and how you always talk about you
You'll say like why are you going across the river as well? Yeah
And for speaking of why and here's another example of mission orders
This is an actual example
C's control of root six west of the muddy river in order to destroy enemy forces attempting to escape from company
Bravo's zone of action
So
It's telling you the why that's what the in order to is notice in the mission order the phrase in order to
That is a very important phrase and usually ought to go in the mission order
There's no rule that every mission order contain the phrase in order to if you were told attack the enemy company that you see in front of you
It would probably be highly superfluous to tell you why
They are there they are threat why waste the breath
But usually your mission order will have the ability to endure time better if you explain the
Spordinate why he is carrying the mission out so you called the seco turning to a little tactical genius over there. Aren't you?
In order to this gives
the order the quality that Eric von Mannstein called long term it can endure the test of time your commander can lose
Communication with you yet you can still carry out his intent because you know what he wanted and you can
Continue to act within his intent for a long time without checking back
Understand why as briefed by
Lieutenant Colonel echo Charles
Fixed rules are not appropriate in instructing how to as how to assign missions to often students reject good ideas about tactics
Because they cannot get their thoughts to fit the format of the operation order that is
Being demanded the important thing is that the mission be clear
Compared to clarity format is of little or no consequence
Then this is
We talk about it in extreme ownership that these massive power point briefs that
I mean hundreds literally you know hundred to 150 slides to try and make the
To try and brief a mission when and and the leaders would away so much time trying to put these briefs together
And and they would they wouldn't do the planning that they're supposed to be doing they wouldn't be thinking
They'd be building power point slides and I've just had to get these guys to think and
Stop stop working on the power points. Stop trying to match your font
Chop time to equalize the huge on each slide to make it look pretty no don't care
What I want you to think and I want clarity of mission is the most important thing the matter of fact
I didn't want guys running training and any guy says to me it's one of the one of the task units commanders and he says hey, you know
What is it what is it that you're looking for in the brief and he's you know trying to figure out how many slides do I want to see and what format do I want to see and I said
What I want for the brief is that your men understand the operation
boom
Back to the book the subordinate receiving that order must be more talented amateur troops awkward clumsy
Untrained troops cannot be expected to carry out mission orders why?
Because as a result of their lack of experience they must be told what to do only the professional experience leader
Can know what to do without being told what to do because we in the Marine Corps set our standard side
We expect that our subordinates will train until they can perform under mission orders
So just I don't know if I made this clear or if I breeze over this part mission orders is exactly
What we're talking about when it comes to hey just tell the person
This is what I need done
And this is why I want it done you figured out as opposed to telling them exactly what you want them to do
Commander sent him yes indeed commanders intent
burdens of responsibility increase on both sides on the part of the senior commander so when you're doing mission orders
The burden of responsibility increases on the part of the senior commander and on the part of the subordinate
Look first at the senior commander operating with mission orders his orders must be perfectly clear
The onus is on the senior to define to the junior what must be accomplished without telling him how to do it
The onus is not on the junior to fair it out what his commander wants
The senior must state what he wants otherwise he should not expect to get it now I actually when I when I teach people this
I tell them that the onus is on the junior and if if I tell you to do some
And you don't understand why you're doing it and you don't understand what my intent is and you still go in the field and try and do it
I blame you I mean it's my fault too, but we're both taking ownership
Might even say we're taking extreme ownership of the situation, but really if your boss isn't telling you why you're why you're
Why they're telling you to do something you just raise your hand and ask K boss
What's your objective here what's your overall intent? What's the commanders intent? Because I want to make sure if I lose communications with you
I can continue to execute towards your desired end state. So we're looking for
An additional burden of responsibility on the seniors that he must train his subordinates and his unit to
Operate as a team they are not going to be able to perform mission orders without training
Another new burden of responsibility is that he must expect his subordinates to make mistakes
He may not expect zero defects wars are one by people not machines people make mistakes
If people are more afraid of making mistakes
Then they are of exercising initiative now and then they will not take risks and they will not exercise initiative
Furthermore, they will not win in war
Perhaps the most important new responsibility is placed on the commander who gives mission orders is that he must trust his subordinates
If trust breaks down the whole system breaks down
So people ask me about trust from time to time and
It's absolutely I use I've talked about relationships the R word and that's what that's what it is and
Lief and I talked about the other day on the podcast is that just building trust how but one of the best ways to build trust is
Give it I give it and so that's what goes back and forth and in the military you do that when you're in the training environment
When there's no risk
Or very very tiny risk of life and limb. There's no strategic left you're not your risk
You're not going to lose the war so I'm going to let you run with stuff
I want you to learn I want you to take risk and if you fail if you screw something up
I don't try and fire you we try and learn from it and that encourages you to take initiative and keep getting after it
Now the the we're moving to the next section
Which is called the main effort
the commander in making his plan must determine what and where his main effort is in every
Operation whether it be offensive defensive or withdrawal
This main effort should be specified in the operation order it should always be clearly stated in paragraph three a the concept of operation
There can only be one main effort when you start giving two or three or a three part main effort
You'd better look back at it because the chances are you do you have not made up your mind
What you are trying to do
So if you're trying to plan a mission you're telling you're telling people there's three main things
We're trying to get done no wrong. There should be one yep
Yeah in message conveyance
Actually, I think it's a newspaper writing they call it bearing the lead it's like your main story
Has to you know you can't have three main stories in one article got it because and you know one story is gonna have cool details
But you start spending a bunch of time on these cool details they call that bearing the lead
Uh, bad deal and so don't do that on the newspaper business and don't do that on that'll feel
Every unit commander down to the company commander will always assign a main effort and sometimes even a platoon commander should
The entire command must be aware of what and where the main effort is
The commander can change the main effort at any time
This is what gives the operation its fluidity and and this is one of the
Pretty common issues that we run it ran into it when I was running training
Run into it now in the business world where you work with a company and they're not they're not assigning a main effort
They're concentrating on 14 different things at the same time. They don't prioritize next gives this is another form of prioritize next cute
And that's a problem because if you're trying to do 14 things it wants you're gonna not the compost any of them
The German word for main effort is shit-poked
Anytime in your readings when you see that and often you will see it written in italics the German word shfrit punk
Take note because it is one of the most important underlying concepts in everything the Germans do
Make the main effort where the enemy least expects you
Make the enemy make the main effort where the enemy is weak
Be prepared to be surprised
So let's go I gotta stop right there
It's interesting you know when you see the big fortified area of the enemy you say okay
We're gonna we better we better attack that hard no wrong answer that's a surface we're looking for gaps so don't make the main effort
The the strong point make it the weak point back to the book be prepared to be surprised
Be weary of the council do not ever be surprised in war you will be surprised
The task is to learn to deal with surprise
If what you thought would be an enemy weakness becomes the enemy strength you should not be disrupted
If your taxes tactics are fluid you can deal with surprise you will shift your main effort to enemy weakness and go on through
That is how the main effort works in the offense
Fluidity
Remember we even hear it a lot about in the Vietnam war the the Vietcong were too rigid they would just try their plan
Didn't have the fluidity the main effort should be directed against enemy weakness not enemy strength
Here you see the interconnection between the concepts the connection between the concept of the main effort and the concept of surfaces and gaps
All the concepts are worked together at the same time the main effort cannot be understood in isolation from surfaces and gaps because it is directed against enemy weakness
And another another
One of the four laws combat that we talk about in the book extreme ownership is simplicity
Simple back to the book even the principle of simplicity can be recognized in the concept of the main effort
Instead of trying to do 10 different things we are focusing on one
There will be many other efforts going on at the same time, but all in some way
Directed at making the main effort succeed
So what do you gain from this main effort?
You gain direction you great you gain fluidity you gain speed and you prevent
Disappaining your efforts all over the battlefield
The way the polls did when the Germans invaded Poland they tried to defend their entire 800 mile front
There was no main effort and by trying to be strong everywhere
They weren't fact strong nowhere
This trying to cover all the bases is a common error in the amateur commanders plan
It is a symptom of avoidance of decision making avoidance of decision making so if you're not saying hey here's what we're gonna focus on you're just
I'm gonna wait. I don't want to decide yet. Oh, I'm not ready to commit
By establishing a main effort you make a clear decision
You obviate the necessity for junior officers to keep asking for guidance
If they know their commanders main effort they can continue to operate even though communications may be cut and
They can continue to operate at a high tempo because they need not keep checking back for new orders
In here we get to another something you might recognize from from our book
Stream ownership when the commander has made this decision he has done something very necessary
He has done something very ethical
He has assumed and taken responsibility
For what will happen if the battle goes a ride?
He cannot blame his subordinates. He can only blame himself. It was he who decided what was to be done
And designated a main effort in order to do it
Therefore it takes courage and moral character to select a main effort
That is why the weak
Commander and the amateur so often failed to do this in fact the weak commander will actively avoid choosing a main effort
His very convenient for the commander weak and character to avoid selecting the main effort because if the battle goes on
Favorably he can blame someone else for the mistake
The commander who has taken the stand and selected his own main effort cannot do this
Therefore in a sense the main effort is a moral commitment
Taking some ownership by selecting the main effort
And you got to dig that
The next concept in again, you know I'm I'm cruising through this book like I always do only reading
I don't know probably
A very small percentage of it 15 percent and
There's a ton in here
And it actually has some very cool
Like exercises where it gives you a scenario that's happening and you go through and you figure out what you would do and it gives you good solutions
So it's gotten it's got it's it's a great book to look at
The next lecture
Is called the concept of the objective
According to the chair according to joint chiefs and staff publication number one dictionary of military and associated terms
The objective is the physical object of the action taken a
Definite tactical feature seizure and or holding of which is essential to the commander's plan
That definition is clear enough
Basel the del heart would have disagreed with the JCS definition at one point in his writings
The del heart stated the only real objective is the enemy
The
The del heart statement is also quite clear and understandable especially when we realize that whether we are attacking or defending the problem is always the enemy
Once the enemy is taking out of the action defending and attacking are no longer necessary
Now
The the
I guess the controversy here if we could call it that is the objective not being a
Specific piece of terrain. It's the the objective is the enemy
But that being said
The terrain of course is extremely important we must use it to gain advantage
But the object of the attack is the enemy the objective must be to take the enemy out of action to destroy him to disarm him
We cannot do that simply by seizing a piece of terrain in holding it we must be prepared to move
Continually wherever necessary to confuse and disrupt him through a combination of fire and movement
When the term objective appears it means an aiming point
That towards which we direct our efforts in order to best use the terrain to accomplish our final goal the destruction of the enemy
The ability to wisely select an objective is the mark of a good commander
The inability is the mark of an amateur and history is replete with examples of poorly selected objectives
There were hills fought for bravely by Marines at Vietnam after they ceased being of any tactical value
Lives were thrown away for meaningless terrain terrain that did not meet either of the two main criteria for selecting an objective
two main criteria are one that is loop that it be useful to you or two deer to your enemy
If it is neither one of these
It is probably not worth the life of a single Marine
Any good commander will therefore select terrain that is useful to him
The great commander will have the ability to select terrain that is deer to the enemy
In the final concept is the concept of the reserve
General JFC follower of the British Army the original author of the nine principles of war that the US Army was to adopt in the 1920s
Once stated that of all the principles he developed the most important was economy of force
He reasoned that whichever side still had forces left after the other sides had been committed was bound to win
Napoleon seems to have had similar thoughts when he observed that whoever still had his reserve remaining after his enemy had committed his reserve would win the battle
And here's another
quote in here from Napoleon
That I think when they're talking about committing and it talks about your mindset on the battlefield
From Napoleon if I appear to be always ready to reply to everything it is because before undertaking anything
I have meditated for a long time I have for seeing what might happen
It is not a spirit which suddenly reveals to me what I have to say or do in a circumstances in a circumstance unexpected by others
It is a reflection a meditation
So Napoleon he was good to have these quick reactions and everyone says wow he must have just had this
Incredible you know he's calling a spirit this comes to him and says hey move these guys over here
Hey, I sold that flag no here. He fought through this thing for hours
He said if they do this I'm gonna do that if they come over here. I'm gonna be ready over here
preparation
What Napoleon was saying was that thorough thought in advance prepared him to make split second decisions when the situation suddenly changed
Preparation
Preparation is key
Now that wraps up the book and I hope that it provides some reminders and some insight to people not only to the war fighters out on the battlefield
But as I said in the beginning I hope it provides some details in a dealing with humans with people and problems
In the business world in leadership positions on that you just do math in life
Whatever you're doing or whatever you're trying to get done think of how you can use maneuver warfare
To make it happen
And I guess we can
Go over to some some questions from the interwebs and
I guess before we go to the interwebs, maybe you could tell us about the interwebs and
What we can do to support
Support by being on interwebs if you're on the interwebs and you're in the mood to support this podcast and or yourself
With supplementation go to on it dot com slash jockel
Get on its supplements are the best ones I like that idea. Yeah
Krill it's a good idea Krill oil for sure for you joint get in
To bring some of that out for briny yeah some shrimp tech sport mode. Yeah, shrimp tech sport if you're into performance
Physical activity performance if you feel you need a little turbo boost. Yeah
Yeah, yeah, I was funny remember
Tim Kennedy put it in like real real good terms in my opinion when he used like oh
Yeah, when I took the shrimp tech it's kind of like
Cuz okay, so you don't want to get confusing be like I'm gonna take the shrimp tech in it's like a like a caffeine boost or something
You know, you don't because it's not that's not so it's and he put in these terms where he's like you know
He you go a few rounds you go five six seven and you know however many rounds and everyone's like real poop
But then you're kind of like I could go a few more rounds and really that is that is exactly how it is
This one or when you're hitting towards the end of the round or whatever it's like you you feel solid
You know, just you know, I guess apparently what it does is it helps you utilize your oxygen
Yeah, and you'll feel like work. I mean obviously you're talking about your jitsu
Which for those people that don't train jitsu?
Which you should but if you don't
Well you should
But you're also gonna keep working out and you have the
You know you so sort of a metabolic conditioning type type workout situation going on
Remember how it's how telling you I did my met come metabolic conditioning after I yes
Like normal lifting so I'll probably do in the reverse of that lately really
I don't know I would have I think I was super warmed up. I'm dripping with sweat
Yeah, and I just and I feel really good and then I figure maybe the opposite will happen because we both know if you go
With your with your strength movements first you take a little bit off your metcon strike right?
Yeah, if if you do and so that way when you do
The metcon fresh you feel like super man right? Yeah, blasted your muscles out
So I've been doing the reverse though when I'm doing the metcon type
First and then I just breathe it out and then I get them there and be stuff
Yeah, and I dig it on the only reason I say I dig it because you're savage like that but
Consider because those are two what depend depend what kind of lifting you're doing
Yeah, so let's say if not well if you're lifting like for strength or you know
Muscle growth or whatever you should do that first because the results you seek are in line with you having full energy
You lifting I agree with you
And you think you're correct and the metcon isn't the results of the metcon is for you to recover from conditioning
See it's muscular conditioning so if you're tired going in
That's more conditioning you have to recover from better access. Yeah, so it's so essentially
But hey if you want to reverse it give your body some some some stuff to your health
This is funny because I completely agree with you and I've only been doing this for a couple months and I
You know what it was you know what it was one day
I was I was gonna do like a metcon pretty strong. It was feeling good sure and then I got done
I said so I was I'm just gonna move some you know, but some some heavy get my lift on and when I when I went heavy
I was like man that feels good
Great all loose some all warm and so now I've just kind of started doing it a little bit
Yeah, and if you get used to that then it'll start to be more and more benefit
I used to I used to run on the treadmill. I used to do like three and a half miles
I'm in four miles and then lift
Just because I didn't have time and and every time I lived I would never feel like running the you know the mile
Afterwards I do not tread no, so I
So I mean what I'm gonna get the running out of the way that I'm gonna lift and then I was like dang lifting is kind of harder
But I'd wait rather endure this discomfort when I'm lifting then when I'm running on the treadmill
But I did that for months and months and months and then one day I didn't run. I was like
It was weird. I was like stiff. Yeah, so you can't even use to it
But either way. I mean what my original point is I do the met now. I do the Mechon after I live
Doing the Mechon after that lift that has been my standard for so long
Right, but you know how you're saying do the Mechon before you live or or you're just doing the Mechon that it's easier
Yeah, because you're not a start-up thing. Yeah, yeah
Yeah, but I'm anyway my original point was the shroom tech
So if you're doing that kind of thing after you lift when you're going into the Mechon you can feel way better
You want to hear something cool. So a lot of times people ask me what is your workout?
Right, they want to know reps sets
Wait yeah, right and that's cool. Of course and I haven't I haven't put it out there for
Well, I'm I got a book
Putting together a book. Let's go to have a book kind of thing. I just not gonna be any books. I'm a little boy
Yeah, I got a real legit book on which means gonna take a little more time
But I'd rather do it do it right, but what's interesting is this is what's so cool so
People that people listen to podcasts and ask and they have been applying the basic principles
Because I have never put I haven't put out. I don't think I put out a single workout
I also people say what do you actually eat? Right then want to know what I had for breakfast lunch dinner
What I had for snacks whatever
Yeah, all I say is like oh, you know, I mostly you know
I I low very low carbs. I eat a lot of meat. I do a lot of protein. I eat a lot of fat
Okay
What do you do for workouts? I get up early in the morning. I hit it hard. You know, am I doing squats and doing poultry
Doing it just basic stuff right now put those basic principles out there well
There's people troopers that have been applying these basic principles
And they're making incredible progress in their lives. They're getting stronger. They're getting leaner
They're getting in better shape. So it's actually
proven because I remember you and I talked about this long time ago. I said listen
It's more about the commanders intent right that they're working out about the commanders intent
It's not about I'm gonna tell you how many reps and sets to do. I'm gonna tell you what you want to make happen
Right, I'm gonna tell you where you want what where you want to be at the end of this workout
physically and mentally and
And and people have been taking that and I mean all kinds of people
They have lost 28 pounds of lost 42 pounds just from
Applying the basic principles that I and and so those will be consolidated in the book
So that people can follow them and they'll be some other good stuff in the book to basic philosophy
Well, that was kind of a tangent on on it wasn't it well, I rightly so I think
Right that he so I think so it's it's
Which which actually kind of brings me to my point that consistency is probably the most overlooked that even though people know
Yeah, you gotta be consistent. We got it but that's kind of everything because everything else is variable
Like you can there's a
Billion different work by consistency do you mean
Doing of the same thing or you just mean doing it every day getting in there. I ain't it. Yeah, absolutely not skipping days weeks
You know getting off the horse, you know that kind of stuff
There's a million different workouts. You can do that will give you results and
There's the nine different results that you can you can kind of strive for and get because it just so many same thing with diet
Like you can you know you people have their rigid diet philosophy, but the fact is that
Many different diets work. Yeah, I mean there's some basic principles
You don't need a bunch of sugar. You don't need a bunch of fast food. You don't you know the obvious things to avoid
And you can get results with many kinds of diet and I would go one step further
What you're talking about consistency in in in order to have consistency that requires the distance
It does require the discipline. So that's the factor. Yep. That is the key factor and when people apply the discipline to their lives boom
Right now we think becomes consistent and that's everything. You know so the books can come in the books can talk about that
There you go
Yeah, how well how well to support the podcast if you before you do your Amazon shopping hmm
Go to juggle podcast.com or the one the websites juggle store
Duck on clicking Amazon link and do your shopping you can support passively and
You can
Install that little tool or you can just make it your from fit your up. I put it in my my what's that called at the top bookmark the bookmark
Yes, so when I click on Amazon it's already a job. Yeah, it's not like yeah exactly that's what I
We go crazy with Amazon and how's him you nice?
Yeah, so awesome and don't call it a little tool. It's not a little tool. Oh, that's right. It's the trooper tool. It's a big deal
It's pretty little
Technically it's really he's got anyway the trooper tool that Brady made little things for that bill again
Great. Yeah, little small tool simple
You go and you can go on the website and get it's called the juggle podcast trooper tool chrome extension
What it all it does it makes it easy to support podcast when you do your Amazon shopping
So you don't have to remember that and it you know
Basically you click on it. Do you want the tool click? Yes, boom. It's on your little browser there
It automatically directs you to our affiliate link which I'll see you support that way and it's kind of cool little icon if you can if you
Yeah, when you do it this little icon there. It makes it official
But you can hide the icon if you don't want it just hide it if you go to it if you don't want it and I understand it if you don't
Yeah, it's a good face
But you know, yeah, the trooper tool that's a good one. That's a good easy easy way because remembering to go to the website and click through before you do
You know how like you're yeah, no, you know you're going to want that thing now. Yeah, you know
You just like it was on the arts, you know, so I want this thing. I want that duct tape now. Yep. I'm same day
Yeah, yeah, sure. So anyway now you got the trooper tool boom easy easy
Also
All obviously by subscribing to the podcast if you haven't already
Found that don't the good way to support yeah, absolutely and the jocos door
That's a good one. I think if you like shirts
Let's say disciplining equals three and most people do have to wear shirts
So some juncture during the day sure you can't get into the restaurant without a tattoo
I'm glad you can sometimes accept it. Oh, I
But yeah, there's some shirts on there. You like them get a shirt. That's a good way to support or a bumper sticker
Elections coming up jocos
Yeah, I saw a car with jocos 2016 on it. Did you know the yesterday? Resident San Diego. Yeah, Chris Martin. Oh, but still it's cool to see you know
You pull up you like it. Oh, that's Chris Martin's car. Anyway. It look cool
Oh, he has a nice car too, by the way. It's a little bit extra cool. You know, it was like extra official. Yeah
We got some real
supporter
Yeah, that's what I felt like
Also
Subscribe to the YouTube channel and you post it your first
Start to put it and that's a it's a deleted scene
Keep you tight on those deleted scene if you want to hear echo Charles talking about
My kids look
My kids my kids are our about alien abducters a lot of podcasts about is that a son of a guy?
I'm not working to fit in that subcategory leadership or
Darkness alien abduction
Maybe that's why it's an outtake that was more like an example underlying
Kind of thing is more about my children's look idea. Okay. We're good. We're good
Anyway, those are the ways yep on duck-up slash jocco. That's a good one
Like I said for the supplement 10% off. I forgot to mention that if you don't know 10% off the supplements. Yeah, good
I guess with that let's get down to the questions from the troopers on the interwebs
Get a lot of questions lately
I like it I like it to first question
Jocco if you were coaching migraegher
For those don't know that's karma-graegher you have to see fighter
What would you focus on to try and make up the jiu-jitsu disparity all defense?
Interesting and if you don't know what's going on
Conor McGregor is fighting made Diaz again
202 UFC
So a lot of times I don't like to talk about this kind of thing because it's by the time this comes out
It'll be you by the time you're listening to this might be over don't care anymore
But there is a a principle here a concept behind this that does make sense to try and discuss so people can
Learn and improve and something for me to think about my game
So you got this guy who's a really good striker going against a guy who's a
Pretty good striker himself very good. Yeah, very good and that's one of the things that this is
This is the question the way it sets it up as if jiu-jitsu is the is the only thing that Nate Diaz is better at
That might not necessarily be the truth and in fact in their first fight it was the striking
Of Nate Diaz that forced Conor McGregor to shoot a sloppy take down
Take it to ground and once you got on the ground the jiu-jitsu from ADS was just way too much for
For McGregor so this question
It's almost a little bit off because the question shouldn't be that there's just a jiu-jitsu disparity the question should be
You know what is how would you make up for the fighting
Disparity or maybe not even that it's how would you go against what would you tell Connor?
What would you work on? Yeah, what's the strategy? So let's just look at as an overall strategic question
You got a guy that's pretty that's what what what is he good at that's the question
What is he good at one of the strengths of Conor McGregor?
He's fast he's strong, but strong might not even come to play because our Diaz walking on a 200 pounds right now
The fight no 170 so he's gonna just call it a lot of way. He's gonna be big and strong. He's gonna be a better shape for this fight
Conor is pretty good with some unorthodox stuff his striking is fast and
Fairly dynamic so those are the things that he has going form what is Nate Diaz have going form his jiu-jitsu is really good
Yeah, I'm just a jujitsu sec his
Striking is especially his boxing is not a big kicker
so
If I was if I was McGregor here's what I'd be doing I mean what I'd be working my wrestling we work my underhoax of course
and in getting control and getting back to my feet
When I get taken down you immediately getting back to my feet
The way I would fight if I was Conor McGregor is I would
Back off with the hard punches. I would throw a lot of really fast
Light punches and I'd move around a lot and just try and touch and go
That's what I do if I was Conor McGregor
I would possibly start in the middle of the second round maybe into the third round five round fight
I might start throwing some leg kicks
He doesn't
Nate sometimes doesn't even check leg kicks, so maybe you can start putting on herding on him if you if you throw enough of those
But in jujitsu wise, I would teach him to disengage
disengage because you don't want to get go you don't want to get in the U to loop
with the heat that
McGregor does not want to get into a loop situation with with DS because he can't keep up with him
He'll be he'll be changing
He'll be going to the next thing going to the next thing going to the next thing and Conor McGregor will be going to get copy-hined and he'll
won't be able to do it. So I teach him to get no now one thing that does make you just a little bit harder if you're if you're you're an iron to injuditzer
And you're goal you're not you you actually disengage for me and you're just like your whole goal
If we were on the mat shook hands
Slap bump and we're gonna roll and all you did try to do is stay away from me. It would be a really hard round for me
It would be harder than if you attacked me. Yeah, it's harder than if you attacked me and when I did take you down
All you did was try and get back up. You didn't try and close a guardian trying to attack me with any submissions
You just try to get back up and get away from me. That is a much harder round for me
Then if you actually come at me with your full board jujitsu
Right because then it's jujitsu versus jujitsu and I have an advantage
But if it's jujitsu of mine versus run away from you now I got to run after you now. It's it's a more fair fight
So that's what that's what McGregor needs to do he needs to use his speed and his
Yeah, use his speed and then I think that's his biggest advantage the other thing that I find about
The DS brothers that I wish that I could I wish they I wish they would not train so much triathlon and train more explosive
I wish he was a little bit stronger both Nate and neck. I mean those guys are awesome and
They're they're great fighters, but they've they really train had they do they do literally do triathlons
And so you're not getting explosive muscles now it shows that they have great cardio
But I'd rather just they were a little bit more explosive. That's that's my personal opinion
Yeah, I dig it I have no advice. I think Nate is so well rounded in this quest as far as this matchup goes
I
Like just like that first fight yeah the first fight though you watch the first round. It's not it's not a pushover
It's gonna be a tough fight man. Yeah. That's an end. That's not what I'm saying
And I'm saying it's for you know you know how like you know you attack the weaker points
Right, you know like let's say I'm a way better striker than one guy and his duty to his way better than mine
I can stay on you know it's obvious that's where I'm gonna talk but in this case, it's not like that. So I'm not yeah
I don't know man
It's helpful. It's a tough fight for it for Connor. I stopped fight for for Nate to me
There were some
Yeah, yeah, we wasn't even the ending of the fight was very lobstided
Right the first round it was a little closer and I think Connor thought he had magic
Yeah, I thought that some of it he even said in a post-flight press conference. He said
You know he was the big a man and and I
I hit him with everything I got most of those would stop a smaller man. Yeah, they didn't stop him and I think that's got to be
That's got to be hard. Yeah, I think that got to him psychologically
So if he's prepared for that psychological this time maybe he'll be able to stick with a game plan and not shoot
Yeah, on him which was ridiculous yeah, and even the shoot it wasn't just like hey
I'm gonna decide to shoot it was kind of like a
Ditch effort yeah, kind of kind of rock to and now you shoot you're rocked and you have to content with Nate
Diaz, you do so it's like it's not just I gotta continue with Nate
You do you do to which is bad enough by the way, but you're rocked and it was like a desperation thing
You got to deal with it then you get that so it seemed like oh so quick, but it was like it was just a bunch of compounding factors
And culminated in that the joke didn't work out looking forward to watching that. Yeah
All right, great next question. Joko like you many leaders began as rebels
Joko's the rep. I'll tell you about his band
One day how did you learn to see the game? Yeah, man that Elgin told you about
Yeah, man
And then you told me about you
How did you learn to see the game and
Are rule followers at a disadvantage?
Okay, so yeah, I was a
Rebellious youth
And you know when I got in the suit teams
I was kind of a rebel rebel rebel as well and as a matter of fact if you think about it from a certain perspective
Being in special operations, especially when I came in being in special operations is almost the
Form of rebellion in its own right because you're saying look the regular stuff. We'll do the regular stuff right?
I'll do the other stuff
so
That was my attitude. You know, I thought all regular navy now
I'm doing this you know, so that was my rebellion and and and like I've explained before
Joining the military I grew up in in New England not a lot of not a huge military proponent up there
And so that was it was almost rebellious thing and matter of fact it wasn't rebellious thing for me to join the military in the first place
So these are the kind of things that were
rebellious and yes, we were we were my buddies and me were
Rebellious with some rebellious
Rock and roll bands back in the day
so
When I got to the seal teams we actually were
I kind of maintained that you know like we're gonna be hardcore me
Maybe there wasn't rebel, but we were we were like outsiders, you know, we were like going hard and
The group of guys I was with when the guys I went through seal training with and went to seal team one with me back in the day
You know, we we were getting effort we were pushing hard we were
You know being hardcore and I actually got told to stand down a few times for doing stuff that was
a little bit too hard core
And it's a matter of fact so you get these evaluations in the in the navy when I first got in the navy
They had this old evaluation system where you had 15 things you were getting evaluated on and
And everybody it it had been um in inflation so high as grade you could get is a 4.0
So if there was inflation on the grades at the time and so everyone just put 4.0 for everything
Pretty much and I actually I have this I actually saved this evaluation of me, but I got a 3.8
3.8
in team building and the guy that gave it to me
said
You know you're just you're just too hard on people that are unsat
Which I actually he was one of the guys that I was like you know hard on yeah, I was hard on
Never-for-for-for
So and unsat I used to use that word all the time yeah sat around ceremony that these
Yeah, so that was sort of you know we were we were
Rebelling by being super hardcore I guess you could say but then
Even though I was rebellious and again that's a strong word I don't know if that's the word we were
It's I don't know if that's the perfect word
But I did I love the seal teams right so and and in working for some of the great guys that I work for I
Realize that if you want to impact the teams which I want to do because I did love teams
Then you got to try again to some kind of leadership position you know
These guys that I respected that I worked for so did wait that guy controls this platoon
I want to do that he's helping us he's making that's good so
Can like that old quote that
The best former revenge is success it's almost like the best form of rebellion is success and so
That's what I kind of went for to a situation. I was trying to first situation where I could move forward and kind of bring this hey
I got this now this my platoon
You know so I I guess that was a little bit of a
There's a little bit simplified but but
You know I don't want again. I don't want to make it sound like I was some kind of crazy rebel in the seal teams
I wasn't I was I was
Into the seal teams I was into doing the right thing and and
I wanted to
Do the do my best in the seal team so I guess that's not really being rebellious at all
But I did still have some of that rebel mindset and one of the things I think is beneficial about having a rebel mindset is
You question things right you question things you're not allowed to you're I was never afraid to say no or I don't agree with that
I was never afraid to be contrarian or something
I was never afraid to hold the line and take criticism so that goes even if if you're in a group of rebels
And you go against them who's the rebel now?
Well you are so when guys were beyond out of certain path I would I'd be okay
Hold in the line against them because
I was okay with being an outsider. I guess that's the word I've been looking for like an outsider
Someone's not quite
Just following and and doing whatever and also doing I've always been okay with being an outsider
So maybe it's not necessarily a rebel
But being an outsider and like okay those guys are doing it that way. No, I don't agree with that and I'm okay being over here by myself
Marching to my own drum for lack of a better word. It's kind of like only if you need to be kind of thing
Right
What do you mean like if everyone's doing the right thing you're gonna do with that sure and you're gonna you know go hard
You know the way you do but yeah, you're not just like this follow the following line, you know and I never
I would say that's something and so if we categorize that as
Being rebellious then yes, I kind of I would more categorize it with being comfortable with being an outsider
Yeah
comfortable with my own decision making process so and not always I mean there's times where I did things
It was you know I was younger you're not that's another thing when um
You know you hear me talk on 44 years old right I spent my whole adult life in the sealed teams
I didn't show up in the sealed teams with like this incredible leadership capability
I learned this stuff. I'm learning still learning I'm still learning this stuff. I picked up off along the way
So I don't want people to ever think that you know I was a superstar
Yeah, wasn't you know, I'm still not I'm just I have an open mind
But now I can look back yeah, and I was lucky enough to have some great jobs and some great experiences that opened a lot of
I
It showed me it. I learned a lot. I had an open mind and the world taught me a lot stuff and so
Yeah, but it wasn't wasn't just like hey, I was
Showed up there but I
Would say this the lead people that are out there that are leaders
Keep the level alive keep alive keep under control
Yeah, and maybe you don't let the rebel talk to other people
Right?
Maybe and I've had a seal buddies that do this where there there rebellious is there as outsider or whatever the word we're using as I am
But they just can't keep it inside so they're verbalizing it and they're and what are they doing they're making enemies?
They're making
They're they're antagonizing people
They're doing that. I never did that because I'm playing the game
I'm gonna win the long term strategic goal so don't let the rebel
Be the one that
Represents you and talks and open your mouth
But
Let him whisper in your ear
In listen
Yeah, I talked about it. I talked to my wife a lot about the difference
There's the difference between what you think or what you feel or whatever and what how you behave
So like you can
If you I don't know you get cut off in traffic or something
No one's gonna be mad at you if you're like mad at that or that irritates you or whatever
But if you start flipping the guy off or or violating traffic logical chase somewhere do you know start behaving
Because he cut you behaving in a certain way then that's wrong. So there's a difference you can feel like all kinds of stuff
But once you start misbehaving that's when the violations come up
Yeah, basically what you're saying. I don't don't let him control your judge yourself. Yeah, you're behavior mind control
Yeah, they're like just being a rebel typically that's like
Hey, all these rules that everyone's following. I'm gonna. I rebel against those rules
But here's the thing some of those rules are good rules exactly so you can't just be a rebel to
Unable Lincoln statement. Yeah, I'm a rebel and that's why that's why it was kind of pulling back on that word
Yeah, it makes me sound like I was big rebel. I was not I was I I loved being in the teams
So why would I rebel against it? Yeah the people I rebel against were the guys that were not good seals
We were about against them like I told you we had a mupe that was a rebellion
That was a straight rebellion. Yeah, how to real legit mutiny and when against our cleaning are our platoon commander
Mm-hmm and said hey to this commanding officer said no, I don't want this guy anymore. That's that's a rebel. Yeah, we were about but then again
Everyone in my platoon was with me so we all were about so then was I a rebel?
I don't know yeah, and does that make you a rebel just because you rebel don't on time
You know yeah
I get think we didn't see much semantics or a hundred and a semantics kind of part of
Let's not go there. All right next question
Question jockel how do you deal with the leader who preaches ownership but does not practice ownership?
Oh, dream
The leader who preaches ownership but does not practice ownership you know what I do in those situations
I take ownership myself and I work for all kinds of bosses
That didn't want to take ownership and you know what I did
Take ownership. I took ownership. Do you work for a boss that doesn't want to lead you know what I did?
Lead
If
For in my mind if a boss doesn't step up or doesn't take ownership they're not a
problem
They're an opportunity
They're an opportunity to an opportunity for me to step up if you're not if you're my leader and you're not giving me instruction
You're not stepping up and leaving guess what I'm gonna run with it. I'm gonna run
I'm gonna take control. I'm gonna take command. I'm gonna make things happen and
You're either gonna
You're either gonna see what I'm doing and say wow he's taking ownership. I need to step up or
If he doesn't have any potential at all
then maybe he looks at it and says
You know what I'm maybe I'm not fit for this or maybe they don't realize it's happening
You'll not take it their job from them because other people will eventually realize
Now the thing that you have to be careful of
Is if you say oh he's not leading I'm gonna lead
That your ego starts saying I'm gonna lead her and then you flaunt it and now you might make your boss think that you're
Gunning for their job
Hmm
And then we can have some issues because now we might shut you down
You know there's all kinds of things that negative things that can happen there so when you take ownership
You gotta make sure you're putting your ego in check and make sure that you're taking ownership
But you're still giving them the credit that's the hardest thing to do but it works
I'm telling you I promise you that works if you take ownership, but then you give them the credit like
Hey sir, you know, I just want to go through this thing right here. Here's what I did yesterday
Based on you know the guidance that you gave us the guidance giving you guidance. Please make it up
Just make it up
These you know here we go and you just do your best to make him look good
Eventually you're gonna win so if you got some of that's not leading that's not stepping up. That's not taking ownership
Just do it yourself
Do it in a tactful manner
Do it in a
non-ego flare-up manner
But do it make it happen
Get after
Yeah, if you keep that goal in a hall like when you're on a team right you have a
Some objectives and it's probably just just a handful of them typically if not just one close with the destroy the enemy
Yep, yeah, make the ceiling you know, whatever the goal is if you keep the goal in mine then you as long as you like really keep it in mine
You you can avoid all the because if you're like okay
I'm gonna step up just like I already say I'm gonna step up and lead and then if you're goal shifts from the main goal that you guys all have to
Now my new goal is to be the leader that's my goal to be the leader then
Out comes the ego because
The being the leader that's what your focus on. I'm the leader of the follow-up kind of thing
Keep the goal in mine you're gonna do basically with your ownership
You're gonna do your part and then some if someone's not doing you know certain things or whatever
You're gonna take the lead you're gonna do your job in it to achieve the goal therefore pulling everybody ahead
So we're gonna keep that keep that goal in mine there. Yes indeed do it for the goal not for yourself
Yeah
Good
Jockel
Something I would be very interested in listening to you discuss is the art of disarming people with words
Yeah, and good question. How do we how do we disarm people and
Good thing tonight. We talked about maneuver warfare because we already know that we're not gonna attack the strong point
We're gonna look for the gaps. We're gonna look for the weaknesses. We're gonna look for the openings
So what does that mean that means if we're dealing with someone that has a big ego
We're gonna side step that we might even throw some compliments out there might be saying echo
You're so good at doing this right here. I could use some help doing that now we're getting around as ego
Now we can start getting into his head if the person's over aggressive
Maybe you just have to be a little bit more accepting of them. Maybe if they're nervous you got to just reassure them
They're hostile
Be just be open-minded to what they're saying so there's a lot of ways that disarm and impact some tactical things that you could literally like
It says
Disarm people with words, so what are words that disarm people? I'll give you a couple
That's a good idea
Oh, okay, or yeah, that actually makes good that that's good sense right there. That makes sense right? Disarmed or
Oh, yeah, I like that disarmed right all free those little easy phrase. That's a good idea that makes sense
You know, I like that those are all things that are gonna disarm somebody a little bit and
Once you disarm them they're gonna they're gonna
Open up they're gonna open up a little bit so so like
Once you
You're gonna have you once you get them disarmed by just opening your mind given a little compliment
Tell them that you like whether they're coming with coming from and then you start to probe and trying to figure out what's going on
And instead of being direct right we want to use the indirect method here so
You know ask questions
Say hey echo could you explain to me what what the what we're trying to get done here?
That's a lot different than what are you trying to do here?
That's an attack almost what the hell are you thinking what the hell were you thinking hey could you explain to me this because I'm not sure I understood
I didn't really see everything here or
Hey, I'm having trouble
Understanding this can you can you help me because I'm not sure I don't think I get this
So now when I say that to you you in order to explain something you have to actually open up you have to say okay
I'll find I'll tell you well as soon as you say that now you're open up right now you're open up and when you open yourself up
When you open yourself up verbally
With an idea to explain an idea that you're open yourself up mentally too because now we're having a discussion
Make happen so it's pretty easy
I shouldn't say it's pretty easy if you think about it and you just think about
those simple
Frases that you can use to disarm people. Hey, it's good idea. I like where you're coming from all the other that that that actually that makes good sense or
That is the way you disarm somebody very simple. Yeah, and there's little things you can do
even outside actually outside straight up outside of any specific like scenario
Where you know some people are just more approachable than other people and then some some people just just aren't
So what you can do
And what I've noticed is people that don't talk
Negatively about people and don't come in just talking negative in general like I knew a guy
No, I still know him, but I don't see him anymore hardly but every time he'd come in the first thing out of his mouth was something like
I don't know traffic was bad. It was something bad. You know, he was just complaining about life and it was just a matter of
What particular thing he chose to complain about, but it was always a complaint everything and
And another thing he would do is let's say someone would say something. Oh, hey, did you see this or that or whatever?
This was real cool. He'd be like yeah, but and then say something bad and kind of dump on it, you know
Yeah, that's true, but you know that kind of stuff. So
Don't do that so that seems kind of easy, but you'd be surprised where
Don't be super negative. Yes, don't be don't be a negative person in general
So right off the bat you'll be kind of one of those guys that's more approachable
But here's here's one that's harder
I mean it's simple, but it's it's kind of harder to do because I think it comes kind of natural
Easy so not easy is don't talk bad about people and
When people are talking bad about people like to you or around you or whatever don't like jump in and kind of accommodate them
And I'm not saying
Reject them or even talk bad about them talking bad about people don't don't do that just don't be one of those people. Yeah, it's the here's the thing it's
I'm going above and beyond saying
Don't
Be you know certain people that's all they do is gospel about people of course. That's a no brainer
I'm saying never do it try to never do it at any cost never do it if you can because basically you're trying to establish a rep
Of being this positive approachable person that's what you're trying to do
So even though people don't take
Specific mental notes like oh you're talking bad about this person you always talk bad about people
They feel it so you ever you ever been around somebody who tells
Tells you secrets every time they see you like am not supposed to tell you this but this and you're like dang this guy's telling me
You know this cool secrets. I like being around him and not typically white people tell and I'm never gonna tell them in a secret
That's exactly right so you know
This guy's talking about about people or this guy's being negative or whatever when it comes to you
Why why would I want to trust in this guy or talk to this guy about this? Especially for gonna do something together
You know, so you're kind of coming at it from the other perspective not how would you disarm someone you're just coming at it from how do you
Be a person that doesn't even need to be disarmed. Yeah, like just yeah exactly so you're so just so
At the start point. No, no, you're actually right so you're saying if if I know you as a guy that doesn't talk bad and doesn't tell secrets and doesn't
But then I'm gonna automatically be a little bit
You're gonna start off a little bit
So you've developed a relationship with the person. Yeah, with that won't really make that your goal make that your goal. Yeah
Jocco have you worked with anyone who led from an emotional or unbalanced place
But learn to detach
And what help them
Well when I was putting these questions together obviously here's one where you also have to use a little
Disarm movement to get someone that's getting emotional about something you gotta get them to calm down. Yeah, so you don't reciprocate the emotion
Don't coach people when they're angry or emotional
That's not the time to say hey, you know what you need to do right now is you need to calm down
Yeah, you know that that does doesn't work actually
Life was telling that story on the last podcast where he was using losing his temper about something and I just you know stood there and said kind of smiled and said
I didn't I didn't reciprocate the anchor. I said hey take it easy. You know don't worry about it
Let's just think about it. Can you make this happen and he's like yeah, I can of course. I actually I had a
One of my one of my senior and listed advisors actually my first deployment to Iraq and
And and he and I were old school team one guy send up
What one of my one of my favorite guys in the world actually, but he would sometimes get a little bit
Most of a little bit a little bit
He had this tactic that I picked up from him that I that I understood the way he
the way he addressed
conflict
Was and I broke it down form eventually was simplify and
Profi and repeat that's what he would do and it actually worked and worked a lot of time on most people and so like first if I said
Hey
I'm gonna need it. I want to take a couple more guys on this operation and if he didn't think I needed more guys for an operation
He'd say well, why don't you just take everyone in the compound? I'll tell you what just take every person on the roster
We'll give you that'll give you enough people then we'll take everyone. I'll also rounding everyone up right now
We'll take every single person that we have out there and I'll even grab some army guys on the web
That was his way and and and I'll be like no man
No and but I wouldn't do is I wouldn't get defensive. I wouldn't get fired up and I would say
Hey, no, I'm not saying any of everybody
I'm just saying I want to take a three more guys there's some spaces in the vehicles that will give us a little more
Ability to contain the target and we look at that say look take a look at the map. We can and so then he
Calm down
I mean and in this guy's case he actually wasn't like two emotional. He was just super passionate and when I actually broke down the
simplify amplifying and intensify
Oh no, it was simplified amplifying repeat. That's what you do. Simplify amplifying repeat
When and then when when every we would start getting a discussion and he would start doing it. We would start laughing because
He realized it has exactly what he was doing so the simple by amplifier repeat. That's that's what the name you put on his little
That was his methodology
Yeah, you know if you said like I said if I said I had need a couple more guys
You take will just take everyone then if that's what you need every single guy
You're he would simplify what you said he would amplify it and make it more extreme and he would just repeat it
Yeah, and most people that he did it to they would feel stupid because of what he did to him
You know he said well, no, I don't need no, I just feel stupid and he said so just
Ridiculous and he'd win
But we had we we would laugh about it, but but like I said he wasn't actually too emotional
He was just fired up about stuff which is a positive thing
But someone that is actually too emotional so like I said you got to stay calm you don't
Don't coach people when they're angry you set a good example and then when people come down later you talk to them about
Like came in that wasn't cool and you got to you got to spin it right because you're trying to get you're trying to you
Don't want to like literally coach
Because if I say echo I need to coach you as I'm in your defensive and all that but if I say
Hey man, I
Man, I rely on you because of your expertise and I think you're the only guy in the pool tune that can actually make this happen
So if you're losing your temper man that doesn't all of a sudden I can't count on you and I need you
Because you know make good I mean we none of us make good decisions if we're all
Ben out of shape on something
So I got to please can you just can you help me by just hey man if you start if you start getting angry about something
Just realize it's gonna affect your decision making and we can't have that man
We need to come we need to make the good decisions people are count on us and that's
How I'm
Handling someone that gets emotional about stuff. Yeah, that that's what it's some simplify repeat one
But I can simplify
Every I'm not gonna say all girls do this but some wives might feel like you say
Lives with the last name Charles
You know
Ultimately I think if you know and you're if you're in a good really you don't really take it that seriously
But but yeah, you say like I don't know you know hey you you were you said something mean to me or whatever
No, we'll then why do marry me then why don't you just you know you they take it to the to that next level
I am provide repeat. Oh, yeah, or watch out for that. We're hey go to this one time long time
We were first cut
She's a she said
She won me to get orange juice. I went to the store's going to start wanting me to get orange juice for whatever reason
I forgot the orange juice. I didn't choose not to get orange juice forgot just forgot
You know you come home for get the orange juice. She said something along the lines of
Does anything I say have any importance to you at all?
That's that's what that is right
I provide and all she needs to do is say it more than once and you got the repeat as well
Yeah, yeah, so I mean I guess to answer that question. No. Yeah, most things are pretty important
I mean maybe not the orange juice at that moment. You know I forgot
Another tactic like when you talk to people like to calm them down or whatever like let's say something they lose their temporal
The camera something like that and you have to address like them losing their tempered be like hey, you know how you use the word passionate passionate
Is it basically like an excuse word for someone being like you know people like it's a fashion in
Compassionate you can be it can be you can be you
Well here's the thing being passionate and being emotional are two different things because you can be passionate about something
And not lose your temper and not being in one of their two different things
So people will be like they'll put that on and so it sounds kind of acceptable
Simply not true, but so if you if the but you can use that to your advantage
You can be like hey, I know you're passionate. I dig it man. It's one of the things I like about you
And another thing that I like about you is that you're also a thinker
That's why oh, and you say what to do
That's what you go work there
Ninja mine
The key line there is that's what I like about you or what I like about you is this and then they kind of take on that role
For sure, you're disarming them yeah, yeah, yeah, there you go very good very good next question
Duckle what do you think of the saying you get more bees with honey?
They actually asked to leave this to but
You get more bees with honey I
Was I always I always actually heard you catch more flies with honey than with vinegar
But to say my idea and it's something I agree with I mean obviously this comes down to the our word relationships and
Always what I'm trying to do is I'm trying to build the relationship so I'm gonna put out the honey
You know, I'm gonna put out the honey the carrot is is is preferable to the stick
Yeah, yeah, yeah, which is another way of saying that the reward the good stuff the
So so yeah totally that that absolutely works better um now you can
Give people too much honey
And now they get type two diabetes
They get lazy they get out of shape and they don't work anymore, right?
So you can't you got to do that's that's the that's the dichotomy that you need to balance as leader not being too hard
But not being too soft not being too aggressive but being aggressive enough
That's the dichotomy, but the bottom line is you need to treat people well
That's what you need to do you need to
Not spoil them but give them respect in
Build the relationships and
If you make that your goal when I work with all these different companies
You know, I'm I'm gonna say listen make your goal with this person that you're having a problem with make your goal to build a relationship
That make that your goal
When they say something negative say something positive when they want to blame something on you say yeah
You're right. It's my fault build a relationship with the person that's gonna strengthen the team
It's gonna be thousand times infinitely better than having an antagonistic relationship with somebody
So
And also
You know when you're leading with vinegar when you're leading with fear and
You're leading with your you're beating people with a stick that doesn't not work out good and the long run
Do you have to have consequences sometimes? Yeah, but
The team that is following somebody because they want to do their best for that leader is gonna beat the team
That is doing things only because they're scared of the leader
Right, yeah, they're trying to avoid the stick that's gonna be where they operate in
You're gonna operate enough to avoid the sticks. Yeah, cuz really that's the goal to avoid the stick
There's no honey really above and beyond yeah
I think you said something very wise in office space
What is he saying?
Review he got hypnotized did you watch office space I've watched it a million times so so he gets hypnotized
All right, so now he tells the truth or he doesn't care you know about things
So he's like he's real opening on as he goes into his little review which is supposed to be this kind of tense thing and they say
Like what's up, you know something that I asked some stuff and he's like it's a problem of motivation
Like we're you know we're not if I get you know all this he's always explained it to and then he's like okay
If I'm if I'm scared of you know whatever this punishment from my boss whatever no I'm just gonna work hard
Enough not to get fired and but that's true. That's absolutely true
So yeah, like these kids who only get scolded, you know
They don't get like compassion and and compliment and support you know they only get scolded a lot of times
I mean there's a lot more to it, but a lot of times they're just gonna do the minimum and clearly to not get scolded too far together direction
We get spoiled you know and the dangerous part about getting giving to like going to front of the direction
How you put it is you don't prepare them like they wind up when they're on their own
Like they're not prepared for like like the tough parts
Yeah, yeah, and there's a lot of good parts in life, man, but those tough parts there there too
So if you're not prepared for me, you're gonna get jacked
Relaxing the better term
You got to correct term actually
You know I last question
Juckle great topic for me would be staying committed to life change. I start strong and fade fast into old habits
Please help I'm gonna have to bring in the little Shakespeare on this one
Shakespeare between the acting of a dreadful thing and the first motion
All the interim is like a fantastic or a hideous dream
And that's
Brutus
From Julius Caesar and Brutus in the play is plotting to kill
So Caesar
Someone he was loyal to
And Shakespeare the master of understanding human nature
He captures what that feels like
And here's what these lines mean between the acting of a dreadful thing
So that's the moment that
That moment when you're waiting to do something that you don't want to do
And the first motion, so that's when you actually start doing that thing that you don't want to do
All the interim
Now this is all that time all that time in that moment
While you are waiting to take action
Is like a fantasma or a hideous dream
So that moment
That moment when you're waiting to do something it's like an apparition a
hideous dream a nightmare
And so the battle this struggle
It takes place in that moment
It's not
Knowing what to do that's not the battle. It's not actually doing it
That's not the battle. It's the moment in between
It's the hesitation
hesitation is the enemy
and in war
Understanding where the enemy is allows you to defeat him
And this is where the enemy of action
The enemy of commitment the enemy of change that's where the enemy lies in the waiting
and
And all you have to do to win
is overcome that moment the waiting the hesitation
All you have to do is go
Move
Take action
Get out of bed get your feet on the ground
Step into the gym put down the donut and pick up the kettlebell
Do not hesitate do not wait go forward
Go to war
And win
Every
single
All right
And I think that's
All of got for the night
Thanks to everybody out there for listening and for all the
Awesome continued support or get from everybody if you want to keep supporting
Echo how they do that
Well, primarily
I
Would say support yourself with supplementation
Because really that's really what it's about not necessarily does supplementation but supporting yourself as well
It's kind of like when you when you fly in the airplane
Yeah, you know you got to put the mask over your self first before you you help your instinct yeah, yeah
Because if you're not dope like you you know, you know what I mean?
So anyway if you need supplements
Go to on it dot com slash jockel get 10% off on its supplements. What does that mean?
That's the best supplements like any guy 10% off
I could explain whether so good, but you can go on the website read it just trust me. It's only supplements
I take in you to right yes and be or you take something else
Don't buy them
Or you can support buy
clicking through before you do Amazon shopping click through the website or just get the trooper tool
I think that would be a lot easier
So you're going to website get the troop tools called jockel podcast trooper tool chrome extension click on it
Boom confirm boom it's on there any time you shop at Amazon you support passively
This podcast and you're kind of official
That's dope. I don't like the word pass over even though I know it's the correct term
Because when you are shop that's that's a really good easy way to support the podcast. Yeah, so I don't
agree with you on the past yeah, I like passing they're actively shopping actively getting after it
Passively supporting I did
They actively went to the website they actively installed the tool or they click through their taking action
They're making things happen. Yep, and it's efficient to give credit and official anyway nonetheless. That's a way and
That's a good way uh subscribe on iTunes of course if you haven't already right a review
Yeah, too right a review some of you have a day that's appreciated because then we know what we're doing here
We're getting feedback. I'm reading the reviews. Yeah, and it goes reading the reviews
Subscribe to YouTube
We're gonna be more a little bit more active on the YouTube so won't be just get a video
Right I'm gonna get active
I'm gonna do it. Don't you get a lot more actually I'm doing it
An active I'm more active. That's good. That's it right now. So that's a good. Subscribe to YouTube now
How about this subscribe to YouTube
If I'm putting out dumb stuff if I'm mucking it up like right now. It's just
You know the video version of the podcast. It's cool if you like podcast why not like the video version
If you even like videos
I'm gonna add some stuff in there some whatever some I'll take steelies teeth
Other stuff little mashups or whatever
If they're lame just unsubscribe
You're confident that they will not be right. I'm confident. Yeah, but I actually thought the first one was it was pretty dark
Yeah, yeah, but you know it's funny about those things
It's a big inside joke
Like for somebody
That's for like no one is that doesn't if someone stumbles across that video and watches it
I mean nothing yeah, I get they'll get way like anybody that is in the game. That's yeah
They're they know what's funny. Yeah, they call those Easter like there's little Easter eggs in there
Like you know the trooper tool video. Yeah, there's little Easter eggs in there if you you know if you play back and pay attention or whatever
Like that just like the shirts
It's a very caution details. Yeah, everybody saw that on your Amazon page that you displayed
Yeah, the duct tape actually if you look closer like well, yeah, there's this stuff. There's these strikes and everything
You just want to give them away. That's part of the fun part of the fun
Nonetheless yeah sure YouTube you can support that way and of course if you like the shirts
Get a shirt
Got a kind of a new one the the trooper one just it's just the basic brand in chocolate podcast if you're on YouTube right now
I'm wearing one right now
You know
Debbie's one of the one of the troopers
Just take a picture of the day like my mom just amazing background
Mountains snow cap mountains trees
Trooper trooper dish
That was good. Yeah, well, they are I did make it a point to get the good ones. They're not like
You know, you know the process of my good creating quality quality. Yeah, I didn't just be like hey
Give me the cheapest possible one the ballpark giveaway. I didn't do that. I was gonna get the you know
I went through some length so they're so they're good wearable quality my goal is to be like
If you put it on you be like this is my regardless of what's on it. This is my favorite shirt. That's the goal
And so the design is just a bonus. I like to think so. Yeah, that's a good bonus. Yeah, but yeah, get a shirt jockelstore.com
Bo get us get a sticker to if you want there's a few options there and a coffee mug and
May or may not have some
Jocco white tea
Mama granted
Maybe we have a little something coming out working with the working with a company a lot of people would talk to me about
the beverage that I drink
Yeah, I drink some alpha brain, but my most common beverage
Yep, and that and find that on Tim Ferris right? Yeah, I like it first people went crazy
Yeah, because he was asking hey, what is that what is that? What is that? What is it? He drank it? He got all fired up
Listen listen to Tim Ferris back. Yeah, he's like oh, this is like in a adrenaline field
There's caffeine in the oven. Yeah, there's there's a small amount of caffeine
Well, I shouldn't say small usually usually usually white teas about a third of a cup of coffee
So it's pre-mile on the caffeine. Yeah, it's like a micro dose of caffeine
There's maybe oxins in there and it tastes good
And so anyway, as I got approached about
Hey, we are we are fans of the jockel podcast and guess what we make tea?
Boom, we want to make your tea. So I went through some iterations trying to find it in tune it
Yeah, little the mixture and now we got a song
Jockel way tea. That's gonna be good. Yeah, so we'll put it on the jockel store
I'm gonna connection to get it
You know, when man this I don't know when that'll be out. Yeah, sometimes yeah, and
You put the thing on there where people can have get emails from us
Yeah, oh, yeah, side the mailing list right yeah, but simple as a mailing list. It's it's more for like in like insider
As you care about like
I don't know insider stuff
So I don't you know how like there's a lot of mailing list or whatever you can get on and know like send you a mail every
Make it a point not to send you stuff that's like not relevant because you sometimes
No, I've seen enough for that before. Yeah, no don't fill people's email box with stuff that is
Stuff yeah, it's like hey, here's my email violate my trust
No, no
I'll send you may yeah, oh, oh, when I when if there's something is important yeah, and not the kind like hey one out of all these people
One of these people might be interested in this lemme send it to everybody's not that kind no
Is if I think everybody's me interested I could be wrong, but if I think that genuinely and then I'll send you something and furthermore if there is
Epandemic epic disaster situation
I will be sending forth instructions
For all troopers to congregate and dominate that's what we're gonna do to the event of the zombie apocalypse
So that alone right there's the reason and at some point
See now at some point I may send out like
A longer thing like for instance up coming
We got the master right later. I'm doing here in San Diego got to get out some details on that so people know
When it's going down all that stuff I'm gonna send that out to there
So that people know what's happening they get connected so that's that's an example. Yeah
Am I gonna email it 47 times no yeah hey reminder, but I
Know if you're enlisted on the on the mail
Then you're interested in what we're saying yeah, so I think that's what we're putting out there. Yeah, oh, we're not gonna violate that
Here's my email violate my trust yeah
You know how they'll cause they'll send you stuff but every like three days. Oh, yeah, if you let them so no there's multiple times a day
Oh
Who does that why would you why is that I'm not gonna send any name marketing? I don't know is that considered to be good marketing? Somebody must be telling people to do that
I don't know you know what that's that's that's what I don't want to do
Is market things
Yeah, okay, that's the thing if anybody out there thinks I'm marketing things stop me
Do it well
I did understand lately there's a difference between advertising and marketing so marketing is everything like if even you wearing that shirt
That's
Technique marketing for advertising okay. Well the other hand right busted
I don't want to get into a big thing here
I was talking to them. Well I guess within we market and we advertise for no we market don't have forever ties
We don't
No, okay, what about when I say what about when you say hey on it has good stuff and I say yeah get the curloil that's on it
Technically okay, I'm I'm
We're in the advertising well what I don't want to do is beat people down with you know by this by that
I don't want to do that. Yeah
On it is actually supporting the podcast and I support on it that's Joe Rogan's company and
And Joe Rogan's a great guy who helped us out who what by the way we're sitting here because of Joe Rogan
FYI
All right the other way. Hey also you got the
You can buy a little book called Extreme Ownership
Britain by myself and my brother, Dave Babin who was on the last podcast podcast 34 he was also on podcast 11
And we wrote a book
It's about leadership. It's about war. It's about business. It's about life
And it's available in hard-covered digital audio format both
Life and I reread the sections that we wrote so that's cool
And you know what's cool is get it for yourself, which is cool. It'll help you but then help you team
Grab them a copy and you're helping us you know a little bit. Yeah, it's for support because
Think good about that book. I said this before but it's it's worth saying again is that you know all like some
Books is like okay. I'm an imp you know improve and and
Whatever. I'm gonna read this book. It's just helped me in this way or that way or whatever
But this is like the kind stuff where you can literally turn on that like right when you read a certain sentence
And it's giving you whatever you know whatever this advice is whichever one it is but the Extreme Ownership will say
You can turn it on right then and there like right then and there you can walk away and you have to read the whole book technically and
It'll you're already be changed. That's all you just gotta do it. I'm saying like not all books
You're like that it's like oh yeah, it's a gradual process
That is awesome. But anyway, that's that's a big takeaway I got from it now
As always if you want to let us know what's going on in your world you're gonna continue this little talk that we're having amongst us
What are up in the webs?
Twitter Facebookie and Instagram echo is at echo Charles
And I am at juggle willing now one of the things that I've made a note here to talk about a little bit
Gotta gotta come clean here gotta address something
Went on a little
Trip into the bush was out of contact before I left on the trip
I
Stopped I didn't stop but I could no longer keep up
Couldn't no longer keep up with responding there was a time there all up until
A week ago maybe maybe a week and a half ago
I committed and responded to every single person that hit me on Twitter a hundred percent
And I kept
Trying to maintain and I told everyone I'm remain tame and I maintain for a long time for what six months seven months something like that
But I cannot maintain anymore. I cannot respond to every single person
And especially coming back from being in the field for
You know seven days where I didn't have it or I have it very sparingly
I'm getting thousands of tweets a day which is awesome and you know what I do read them all
I absolutely read them all but to respond every single one of them
I don't I don't have time starting about a week and a half ago. I just said nine I can't do this because
First of all we went to the whole thing of like oh we're gonna go two times a week for the podcast or the one time
Two times a month for the podcast maybe one ever two weeks
Most people didn't like that. I didn't like that. I want to come and get it on so
But well and and I used to be able to respond to the Twitter in like 45 minutes a day which I find that time
I'll make that time then it was an hour then it was an hour and ten minutes and all of a sudden it became
Two hours a day and then if think about this if I missed a day for whatever reason
One missed a day and a half five hours finally one Sunday
I sat down and I did Twitter for a
Stupid amount of time you know six something hours and
Twitter's a great method of communication
but
I got to be more selective and disciplined about my time management. I don't want to carry this on even further, but
There is an um kind of like kind of laughing is that because you're kind of new to social media
So kind of but it's funny because like you're
This is gonna sound strange but you're that like nice of a person that you're like
Telling everyone like we know
You know you can't just find everybody right but you're like really bothered by you like guy
I can't I'm not being rude. I'm not being rude. That's what's fun. That's what's funny
Because from your perspective, it's like it's like someone's talking to you for real and you're just like
Basically putting your finger up saying I don't you know, I don't have time for you. Yeah, but
Anything we are kind of a group a team right? Yeah, which makes it even yeah
of which I'm sort of like the guy that facilitates the communication between us from almost a leadership position
And so for now people and you know what was funny because uh
One of one of the troopers guy in Brandon who's been it in the games since day one. I forget how he
I think I think you listen to Tim Ferriss Bar and he immediately like followed me on Twitter and
We were going back and forth on a bunch of stuff and and finally we were emailing about some stuff
We were emailing about uh
He was he was trying to get timex
To sponsor
Yeah, the podcast or me or something because timex is selling watches
factually
The a lot of people have bought timex iron man matches watches
People from your things just from from wanting to get in the game, you know, oh yeah, that's cool man. Let's do it
You know and so a lot of people have factually bought those watches and so Brandon trooper was like hey
You know what I'm gonna contact these guys so we went back on a bunch of emails
I have pictures
of me
With this watch on with this timex watch that you see on my Twitter feed
Not the exact same watch, but the same model watch the same model and I have I think five of them right now and actually
Some troopers sent me other older because you can't buy him anymore
So I have I have enough of these watches to last me for the rest of my life
You know, I think it's about five or six
And I've actually done surgery on these watches over the years like like things yeah
Like one would break a certain part so I had taken another one apart and I put the insights and you know
So one day I was reading an email from Brandon because we emailed back and forth on this a couple times and then the other day
He emailed me just said hey just so you know
I haven't given up on them still on timex and I said I'm an email and I was reading it on the way here
to record
and
And I was looking through the email
When I parked I saw his phone number at the bottom
And I just hit you know it's iPhone I hit I hit the thing you're Nicole and I said
And he's okay, this is Brandon and I said hey, what's up, man?
It's so cool he's like really yeah, man, what's going on?
I was one of the touch-based and he's and so I said so we started talking and this was right as the social media
I was reaching the kind of the end of the line of social media
And as I'm sort of thinking about how I'm gonna
Manage and how I'm gonna like if I could tell people like listen, I'm sorry I just can't
I physically can't do it
And one of the things he says to me while we're talking he goes you know what's so awesome is that you respond to everybody
So I stuck with it
Okay, you know what I'm behind him and he's sit down and I think that's when I did like a Sunday where I just sat there like an idiot
You know what I know but it just boom boom boom boom
Yeah, and I think it's too slow people are telling me good stuff and I'm like, why I say hey, man
I think that's good point. Oh, that's a good book. I'm gonna check that out
So we need to tell me that I said okay, and hold the line. I hold the line press and then and then I realize if I'm gonna hold the line on that
I'm gonna let go of more important things one of them being the podcast
Yeah, one of them being the podcast and not putting forth quality podcast which to me is
the most important thing that that I'm doing right now is is getting the podcast quality from a podcast perspective, right
Sure
Um, so yeah, there's my uh, there's my social media adventures
No, yeah, what it's funny to think of it from your perspective because I would argue. Oh, yes that from everyone else's perspective
It's like yeah, no
No kidding. Yeah, yeah, you're here. He's getting but not man good and you really you're the yeah, I think that's that's cool
Well apologize everybody, but uh, and I'm I'm still I'm telling you I'm still like reading them
But it's I can't respond there
Got you the man but what I'm gonna try and do since I don't have to be sweating the the more responses if I treat
I'm gonna try and like do be a little bit more active as things happen cool things happen whatever yeah, we'll see how that works out
All right
To close it out thanks
Always and once again
To the uniform folks out there the firefighters police and law enforcement and of course the military members
Thanks to you all
for holding the line and
To the other troopers that are out there that are listening
Who have
Open your ears and open your mind
you
You who are looking at yourself every day
Like we do
Thinking how can I be better
Thanks for doing that
Thanks for making that daily self-assessment
Thanks for moving forward without hesitation
and
Most important
Thanks for getting after it
So
Until next time this is echo and jacco out